- [Instructor] Microsoft Azure has become
quite a popular alternative in Cloud solutions.
With Azure ranking and usage right behind AWS,
you can expect that having the right knowledge
and skills for your organization
will be important especially among software developers.
For this video,
you'll need to create a Microsoft Azure account
and will also install the Azure CLI
in our Vagrant instances that we set up back in 0304.
From the Microsoft Azure website, click on the free account.
Now, in order to use this, you're going to need two things.
A credit card and a GitHub account.
Don't worry about the credit card you won't be charged
but this will be used to validate and set up your account.
As for GitHub, we just finished setting up
our GitHub accounts in chapter four.
Now I must also warn some of our learners
that Microsoft does not support account creation,
as of this video,
if you happen to reside in one of the unsupported regions.
So some of you may run into issues with account creation
and unfortunately this could affect learners
in following along with the labs for this tutorial.
If this does affect you,
I encourage you to contact Microsoft
and inquire when access to your region will be available.
And also please watch the videos anyways
so that you can absorb the content
and learn what resources are out there with Microsoft Azure.
Once you're done with account creation
please open up a different URL,
navigate to portal.azure.com.
Once you finish logging in
this will be the screen that we'll use
to manage all of our resources in Cloud services.
And we'll come back to the site in the next video.
With that complete let's open up a terminal window
so we can start up our Vagrant instance
that we created back in 0304,
and we're going to prep it for running Azure CLI.
If you have not already, please type Vagrant up
and once it's done starting up you'll type vagrant ssh.
As you can see here, I've already started and logged in.
Once you're logged into the Vagrant instance
we're going to update or reinstall sdkman.
You should have installed sdkman
back in the introduction chapter
but I'm going to run through it again.
So first of all, we're going to type curl -s
"https:// get.sdkman.io" pipe space bash, and hit enter.
This install will take place pretty quickly.
Now, once it's done, it's going to request
that you open a new terminal or in the existing one,
we'll run this command
going to copy this and we'll paste it in it.
Hit enter.
Now we'll type sdk version to see the version of sdk
we have installed.
Next, let's go ahead and type sdk list Java
and we're going to search for an Amazon Corretto version 11.
Here is the latest Corretto version 11 of Java.
We'll copy that type Q to exit.
Then we'll type sdk install Java
paste in that Corretto 11 version and hit enter.
Okay, with that done we'll type Java -v-version.
Let's do that again.
Java --version to verify.
There we go.
Next, we're going to install the Azure CLI on this instance.
I recommend taking the opportunity
to visit the official documentation and take a look around.
You can find this at docs.microsoft.com
EN-US CLI Azure install -Azure-CLI.
If we click on install for any script
and click on install script any,
scroll down the page.
We're going to navigate to the curl command located here.
We'll copy this.
We're going to go back to our terminal instance
and let's clear the screen
and we'll paste a curl command here and hit enter.
Along the way, we're going to accept defaults.
In this instance, for me, this is a reinstall,
but for you, you're going to choose defaults.
We'll accept the defaults again
and then the download will kick off.
Now this will take a fair amount of time.
So please be patient with the install
and pause the video if you need to wait.
Okay, so here at the end
it's going to ask a few more questions like path
and our C file.
We'll accept both of those and hit enter
and our installation is done.
Let's clear the screen.
We're going to type az version verify.
Okay, we have done a great deal of work so far
but we have one final install to set up
our Vagrant Linux instance for use
and running Azure CLI and spring boot deploys.
And this is Docker.
The final details for installing the Docker binaries
on this Linux instance can be found
over here docs.docker.com
engine/install/binaries#install-daemon-and-client
- binaries-on-linux.
I know that was a mouthful
but please make sure you review this site.
Okay, we're going go ahead and navigate down on the screen
until we come to the installation instructions.
And we're going to come back to this page
and copy and paste a few things,
but first go ahead and right click on download Docker,
Linux/static/stable.
We'll open this in a new tab
and we're going to go to the X86_64.
And we're going to go down here to the latest 20.19.
We'll copy the link address.
Then we're going to go back to our terminal instance.
Let's clear the screen.
Next we're going to type wget
we'll paste in the link and hit enter.
If we go back to the browser
we have various install instructions
for how to install Docker
and I'm going to be stepping through these.
I encourage you to spend some time
looking at these on your own.
Okay, let let's clear the screen.
We're going to type tar xz vf docker hit enter.
This will extract the tar to the various directories.
Once that's done
we're going to type sudo copy docker/*
through the user bin.
And with that done, let's clear the screen again.
Let's type sudo dockerd & and hit enter.
This will start up Docker
and it'll now run in the background we'll hit enter.
And the final step is to test Docker installation
we'll type sudo docker run hello-world and hit enter.
This will verify that the Docker instance is running.
Okay, so that validates that we have Docker installed
and it's working correctly.
Now, for some of you,
you may receive this error message
telling us that the /proc/self/fd/14 file is already closed.
This is a known issue with this version of Docker
and sometimes occurs on updates and reinstalls.
So this is it for the initial install.
I know it's been a lot
but this will pay off in the next several videos.